[Music]
welcome to another episode of
seven-minute Marketing with Pam my name
is Pam dinner I love sharing a little
doze of b2b digital content marketing
and sales enablement seven minutes at a
time so Chris asked me this holy grail
question hey Pam how can marketing help
sales and vice versa
well the question is a little abstract
so let's bring it down a notch marketing
can do many things to help sales the
question is what marketing wants to do
to help sales and whether sales agrees
that it would be helpful for example in
many cases marketing helps sales build a
pipeline which means getting potential
leads or marketing qualified leads
yeah marketing can also help sales are
messaging what to say and how to say it
about new products and offerings and
from messaging marketing can naturally
extend its help to content creation for
the sales team and even incorporate
content into sales onboarding and a
continuous training and that's not it
if you think about it marketing tends to
be on the digital forefront way before
sales or any other organizations within
the company therefore marketers can
transfer your knowledge to help with
social selling they can also share do's
and don'ts on social media in addition
some marketers are very good at doing
marketing research which may also apply
to competitive landscape analysis like I
said there are many things marketing can
do to help sales Chris the sky is limit
okay now turn that around
what can sales do to help marketing well
sales should educate marketing on how
they sell and practically tell marketing
about the challenges they encounter
brainstorm with marketing to help solve
some of the sales impasses the example I
use all the time is a whiskey hump
wanted to increase his shelf space in a
supermarkets and liquor stores the sales
team work with your marketing team to
run three tasting events in multiple
stores induced geo-targeted social media
pass to drive traffic to the stores and
that is a great example of using
marketing to close a sales deal and you
know in reality I understand budget
resource organizational structure and
the business priorities tend to get in a
way of how sales and marketing should
work together in enterprises however it
doesn't hurt to open a dialogue with
your marketing peers help them
understand your needs and challenges the
more you talk the more you'll find ways
to work together it's like any good
relationship you need to work at it
right it takes time it takes money it
takes effort you need to work that
relationship together so the short
answer is start talking and keep the
conversation going is the best way for
marketing and sales to help each other
if you have any questions on how to
bridge that relationship reach out to me
on Twitter LinkedIn Facebook or my
website directly that's have a chat
again if you like the podcast please
share with your colleagues and friends
it will be greatly appreciated so in the
meantime keep hustling my friends you've
got this
[Music]